PLT-174: add some basic documentation on Plutus language versions (#4646)
input-output-hk/plutus: doc/plutus/explanations/language-versions.rst

.. _what_are_plutus_language_versions:

What are Plutus language versions?
==================================

The Cardano ledger tags scripts with a *language*.

> This determines how the ledger will interpret the script, but also the *interface* to the script.

Reviewer: What exactly is an "interface to a script"? It doesn't sound like a concept I'm familiar with

Author: I don't really know what to do when I want to refer to conceptual docs that don't exist yet. Maybe I should just write them.

The interface is very important, since it governs what arguments the ledger will provide to the script, including what information about the transaction is conveyed.

> Today, the main languages are the "simple" script language (which allows basic timelocks etc.) and multiple versions of Plutus (we'll discuss what that means below).

Reviewer 2: Yes, it is confusing for me as well

> Today, the main languages are the "simple" script language (which allows basic timelocks etc.) and multiple versions of Plutus (we'll discuss what that means below).

Author: I could do with a reference for this...

Languages must continue to behave the same forever, otherwise we could change the behaviour of existing scripts, potentially making outputs un-spendable and breaking users' assumptions.
That means that many kinds of change to the behaviour of the language instead require a "new" language. [1]_

Hence, in order to change Plutus, we need to create a new language in the ledger.
Since in most cases this language will be very similar to the ones that came before, we refer to these as "Plutus language versions".
This is a little confusing since it may be that the only difference between "language versions" is that the interface to scripts has changed, and not the Plutus Core language itself.
However, this reflects the fact that from the *ledger's* perspective this is a new, completely independent language.

> 

Reviewer 3: I suggest not saying "this is a little confusing" because in a way, it is inviting or expecting the reader to be confused! Instead, perhaps this can be stated plainly and directly, subliminally inviting the reader to not be confused. 

For example: 

"From the *ledger's* perspective, this is a new, completely independent language, even though the only difference between "language versions" is that the interface to scripts has changed, and not the Plutus Core language itself."

In practice, the process for creating scripts of different Plutus language versions is very similar.
The main difference is that you will likely need a different ``ScriptContext`` type, and different built-in functions may be available.
See :ref:`Plutus language changes <plutus_language_changes>` for a description of what has changed between versions.

> .. [1] For more details about what kinds of change require a new language , see the `Plutus Evolution CIP <https://cips.cardano.org/cips/cip35/>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. [1] For more details about what kind of changes require a new language , see the `Plutus Evolution CIP <https://cips.cardano.org/cips/cip35/>`_.
```
